* [**v3.0.0**] 2020.04.22
    
    _**IMPORTANT**_:  
    The __bump to version 3.0.0__ is due to changes in behaviour that makes this version incompatible with scripts which might have been written for version 2. Specifically, `caht`, `wahet` and `hd` changed their default behavior:  

    `caht` and `wahet`
    :   These downscale the input image to a size of 320x280 if it is larger than 480x420 (more than 50% larger than the target size). This can be reverted with the `-noscale` commandline option.  
        The reason for this change is that both segmentors contain assumptions about the image size and image to iris ratio. For larger images for example, the eyelash detection with a structuring element of fixed (pixel-based) size, as employed by `wahet`, would not find anything because eyelashes are to large to match.

    `hd`
    :   From a medical point of view the eye can rotate in the eye socket, this means that even if the head is kept in the same position there will be rotation compensated in for iris matching. Various papers have looked into this effect and found ample rotation in databases used for research. The minimum amount of rotation is ±10°. Given that the output of caht and wahet is 512x64 that translates to `-s -16 16` which is now the default.
        - A shift of ±16 bit is enabled by default (`-s -16 16`).
        - Harddistk space is cheap, `-b` is ENABLED by default (turn off with `-boff`)
        - Memory is cheap, `-#` is ENABLED by default (turn off with `-#off`)
        
        _Note:_ The `-b` and `-#` flags have been kept for compatibilities sake, they do nothing. 
        If both -`b` and `-boff` (or `-#` and `-#off`) are present then the enabling flag overrides.

    These changes in theory create incombatibilities, in practice the difference should be minimal.

    __Minor changes__:

    - `gen_stats_np` now has the option `--odauto` which enables writing of output and statistics and set the filenames based on the input with extension `.eer` and `.stats`. The direct options (`-o` and `-d`) can override the automatic filenames if required.
    - Added rank 1 accuracy (and rank 5 and 10) for identification evaluation to `gen_stats_np`. This is off by default as the computation is expensive, switch on with `--R1`.
    - `gen_stats_np` should now be able to work better with inputs not generated by `hd`. 
    - `gen_stats_np` now allows for floats in the range expression.
    - `gen_stats_np` now prints each warning only once and gives a summary and count at the end instead of spamming.
    - Fixed an error in `gen_stats_np` which calculated a wrong FNMR@ ratio if the FMR had multiple positions where it was was equal to the threshold.

* [**v2.4.2**] 2019.03.15
    - Added zero FMR and zero FNMR to `gen_stat_np.py` output.
    - `TripleA` now has a `-M` option to extend maximum shift
    - Fixed the `gen_stat_np.py` McNemar and statistics part (id was based on filename instead of id so no match was found on rare occasions, imports reflect the new scipy package structure).
    - Change of `lg` behaviour, it will skip inputs with empty data or mask instead of breaking. Should be more stable in batch processing now.
    - Change of `qsw` behaviour, it will skip inputs with empty data or mask instead of breaking. Should be more stable in batch processing now.
    - Changed `hd` to give some more informative errors when it fails.
    - Included a package, providing `cnnmasktomanuseg.py`, for the paper:
        
        > **Heinz Hofbauer, Ehsaneddin Jalilian, Andreas Uhl**. “_Exploiting superior CNN-based iris segmentation for better recognition accuracy_”, in Pattern Recognition Letters 120, 2019. DOI: [10.1049/iet-bmt.2015.0069](https://dx.doi.org/10.1049/iet-bmt.2015.0069).

* [**v2.4.1**] 2018.06.15
    - Fixed an error in `gen_stats_np.py` where output from hd was assumed, or more specifically a sorted list of filenames. This should be more generic now.
    - Fixed an error in `gen_stats_np.py` the area under curve was slightly overestimated (depending on the slope).
    - Fixed an error in `wahetlot2manuseg` where an ellipse with spanning rectangle of width or height < 1 only produces two points.

* [**v2.4.0**] 2017.11.23
    - Tuneable versions of `caht` and `wahet` are and visible light versions `cahtvis` are in. The visible light version of wahet is `wahet` with negative border weight. These are the tools used in the chapter:

      > **Peter Wild, Heinz Hofbauer, James Ferryman, Andreas Uhl**. “_Robust Iris Image Segmentation_”, In Iris and Periocular Biometrics, IET, 2016.

    - Fixed a division-by-zero bug in the mask generation of `wahet`.
    - Fixed a lot of errors when `wahet` failed to find a sane segmentation.
    - Fixed a bug in `caht` where eyelid search on image boundary lead to out of bound writes.
    - New tools:
        - `cahtvis`
        - `gen_stats_np.py` takes a score file, as generated from hd and outputs statistics (EER, FNMR) and distribution files for plotting.  
          

* [**v2.3.0**] 2017.10.25
    - Fixed a crash when a faulty parameters to hough_circle would generate a negtive size (`caht`).
    - Fixed a various memory problems with lookup_table in `caht`.
    - Fixed a division-by-zero bug in the mask generation of `caht`.
    - Hamming distance and masks: new options to skip failures (`-sf`) and log them (`-sfl <file>`), failures happen when there are no unmasked iris bits, i.e. nothing to compare.  
      The default remains as it was up until now.  
      _Discussion_: Currently hd is calculated based on no errors (which is technically correct). However this leads to bunching mask failures at HD 0, leading to grossly inflated FNMR at FMR=X% values. This is not usefull, but was the default up till now, and remains so.  
      The new options allow the more sensible approach of allowing to remove the resulting comparisons from the results in an easy way (and log them so they can be reported).
    - New tools:
        - `cahtlog2manuseg`
        - `wahetlog2manuseg`

* [**v2.2.0**] 2016.01.12
    - Fixed the bug where an empty point list for ellipse fitting would cause manuseg to break. Now the one failing input is skipped and the rest runs through.
    - HD has now the capability to report the bitshift at which the optimal HD was found.
    - Fixed a bug where the `lg`, `cg`, `cr` and `qsw` features wrote the bitsequence for iris codes bytewise out of order, i.e. byte order was correct, however bit order per byte was wrong. This lead to alignment errors with HD rotation correction with the `-s` option.
    - Included a package for Binarized Statistical Image Features (`bsif` and `bsifc`) from the paper:
      
      > **Christian Rathgeb, Florian Struck, Christoph Busch**. “_Efficient BSIF-based Near-Infrared Iris Recognition_”, in Proceedings of International Conference on Image Processing Theory, Tools and Applications (IPTA'16), 2016.

* [**v2.1.0**] 2016.03.22
    - Included package for TripleA from the paper:

      > **C. Rathgeb, H. Hofbauer, A. Uhl, and C. Busch**. “_TripleA: Accelerated Accuracy-preserving Alignment for Iris-Codes_”, Proceedings of the 9th IAPR/IEEE International Conference on Biometrics (ICB'16), 2016.


* [**v2.0.0**] 2016.02.04
    - Scaling options added as used in the paper:

      > **Heinz Hofbauer**, **Fernando Alonso-Fernandez**, **Josef Bigun**,  and **Andreas Uhl**. "_Experimental Analysis Regarding the Influence of Iris Segmentation on the Recognition Rate_," in IET Biometrics, 2016.
      
    - Variable iris texture height support added as used in the paper:

      >  **Rudolf Schraml**, **Heinz Hofbauer**, **Alexander Petutschnigg**, and **Andreas Uhl**. "_Tree Log Identification Based on Digital Cross-Section Images of Log Ends Using Fingerprint and Iris Recognition Methods_," In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Computer Analysis of Images and Patterns (CAIP'15), pp. 752-765, LNCS, Springer Verlag, 2015

    - New tools:
        - `cg`
        - `lbp` and `lbpc`
        - `surf` and `surfc`
        - `sift` and `siftc`
        - `manuseg`
    - Renamed `iffp` to `ifpp` (for iterative fourier push pull).
