% University of Salzburg Iris Toolkit (USIT)


License
=======

H. Hofbauer, C. Rathgeb, A. Uhl, and P. Wild,  
University of Salzburg, AUSTRIA,  
2020

Copyright (c) 2020, University of Salzburg
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

> Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
> list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
> Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
> this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
> and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

If this software is used to prepare for an article please include the following reference:

Text
----

C. Rathgeb, A. Uhl, P. Wild, and H. Hofbauer. "Design Decisions for an Iris Recognition SDK," in K. Bowyer and M. J. Burge, editors, Handbook of iris recognition, second edition, Advances in Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Springer, 2016.

Bibtex
------

    @incollection{USIT3,
        author     = {Christian Rathgeb and Andreas Uhl and Peter Wild and Heinz Hofbauer},
        title      = {Design Decisions for an Iris Recognition SDK},
        booktitle  = {Handbook of Iris Recognition},
        editor     = {Kevin Bowyer and Mark J. Burge},
        publisher  = {Springer},
        year       = {2016},
        series     = {Advances in Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition},
        edition    = {second edition},
    }


Requirements
============

These programs require the following libraries:

 - [OpenCV version 2.4.9](http://opencv.org)
 - [Boost version 1.59](http://www.boost.org)  
    specifically:
    - filesystem
    - system
    - regex

 - [Python 3](http://python.org)  
   and the following libraries:
    - scipy

Algorithm description
=====================


Segmentation
------------

 * `caht` ... Contrast-adjusted Hough Transform, now also includes the tunable version
 * `wahet` ... Weighted Adaptive Hough and Ellipsopolar Transform, now also includes the tunable version
 * `cahtvis` ... Same as caht but for visible light (searches for iris first then pupil)
 * `ifpp` ... Iterative Fourier-series Push Pull
 * `manuseg` ... Uses points from a manual segmentation to extract the iris texture


Tools
-----

 * `cahtlog2manuseg` ... Generates input for manuseg from caht segmentation logs. Can be used to segment masks for drop in mask replacement.  
   How to:
    1. Segment with caht and log (-l) the segmentation.
    2. Convert the segmentation log to manuseg input files with `cahtlog2manuseg`
    3. Use manuseg and the generated files to normalize drop in masks.
 * `wahetlog2manuseg` ... Basically same as `cahtlog2manuseg` but using elliptical parameters as generated by `wahet` instead of circular `caht` parameters.

Iris Mask comparions
--------------------

 * `maskcmp` ... Comparison of iris masks


Iris Feature Extracation
------------------------

 * `lg` ... 1D-LogGabor Feature Extraction (=> hd for comparison)
 * `cg` ... Complex Gabor filterbanks as used by Daugman (=> hd for comparison)
 * `qsw` ... Extraction with the algorithm of Ma et al. (=> hd for comparison)
 * `ko` ... Algorithm of ko et al. (=> koc for comparison)
 * `cr` ... Algorithm of Rathgeb and Uhl (=> hd for comparison)
 * `cb` ... Context-based Iris Recognition (=> cbc for comparison)
 * `dct` ... Algorithm of Monroe et al. (=> dctc for comparison)
 * `sift` ... Sift points as iris code (=> siftc for comparison)
 * `surf` ... Surf points as iris code (=> surfc for comparison)
 * `lbp` ... Local binary pattern based features (=> lbpcc for comparison)


Comparators
-----------

 * `koc` ... Algorithm of Ko et al.
 * `cbc` ... Context based algorithm
 * `dctc` ... Algorithm of Monro et al.
 * `siftc` ... Comparator for sift iris codes
 * `surfc` ... Comparator for surf iris codes
 * `lbpc` ... Comparator for lbp based iris codes
 * `hd` ... Hamming Distance-based Comparator


Verification
------------

 * `hdverify` ... Performance of Hamming Distance-based verification of iris codes


Evaluation
----------

 * `gen_stats_np.py` ... Generate statistics from score file

### `gen_stats_np`

Can handle differnt input formats, by way of regular expressions, but the main format is of the following form:

    FILE1 FILE2 SCORE

where the user id should be determinable (by regular expresssion) from the filename.

An example of a score file (first 10 lines only):

    lg_caht_c1_bD_s1_u038-R_004.tiff lg_caht_c1_bD_s1_u038-R_004.tiff 0
    lg_caht_c1_bD_s1_u038-R_004.tiff lg_caht_c1_bD_s1_u038-L_000.tiff 0.482091
    lg_caht_c1_bD_s1_u038-R_004.tiff lg_caht_c1_bD_s1_u009-L_002.tiff 0.461379
    lg_caht_c1_bD_s1_u038-R_004.tiff lg_caht_c1_bD_s1_u009-R_002.tiff 0.48866
    lg_caht_c1_bD_s1_u038-R_004.tiff lg_caht_c1_bD_s1_u030-L_003.tiff 0.459765
    lg_caht_c1_bD_s1_u038-R_004.tiff lg_caht_c1_bD_s1_u001-R_004.tiff 0.458024
    lg_caht_c1_bD_s1_u038-R_004.tiff lg_caht_c1_bD_s1_u035-R_003.tiff 0.451192
    lg_caht_c1_bD_s1_u038-R_004.tiff lg_caht_c1_bD_s1_u013-R_003.tiff 0.460288
    lg_caht_c1_bD_s1_u038-R_004.tiff lg_caht_c1_bD_s1_u004-R_000.tiff 0.488936
    lg_caht_c1_bD_s1_u038-R_004.tiff lg_caht_c1_bD_s1_u018-R_001.tiff 0.454028

the regular expression to get the user id would be `u(\d\d\d-[LR])_`, groups are used to select the id and multiple groups are allowed and will simply be concatenated. An example output of the above input is:

    CONFIG   linemodel:=space
    CONFIG   idgen:=(\d\d\d-[LR])
    CONFIG   ignorecase:=False
    CONFIG   outfile:=None
    CONFIG   distfile:=None
    CONFIG   comparefile:=None
    CONFIG   statistics:=True
    CONFIG   reverse:=False
    CONFIG   filename:=hd_lg_caht_mask_s16.txt
    CONFIG   range:=[0, 1]
    CONFIG   gencount:=672
    CONFIG   fnamesquash:=(.*)
    CONFIG   bins:=1000
    CONFIG   impcount:=61104
    672 genuines, 61104 imposters
    EER = 19.504090% at threshold t = 0.445 
    OVL_b = 32.641539%
    AUC_b = 87.897819%
    FNMR = 41.964286% at FMR = 0.100000% 
    FNMR = 45.072857% at FMR = 0.010000% 
    FMR = 99.996164% at FNMR = 0.100000% 
    FMR = 99.998143% at FNMR = 0.010000% 

showing equal error rate, overlap coefficient, area under curve (both based on the binning) as well as different ROC operation points (FNMR at a given FMR and FMR at a given FNMR).


Face/Face-part detection
------------------------

 * `gfcf` ... Gaussian Face and Face-part Classification Fusion


